feat(docs): Leave Policy Assignment (#136)
frappe/erpnext_documentation: erpnext_documentation/www/docs/user/manual/en/human-resources/leave-policy-assignment.md

# Leave Policy Assignment

> Introduced in Version 13

> Leave Policy Assignment in ERPNext is used to grant leaves to employees. To access Leave policy assignment, go to:

Reviewer: @Anurag810 add more info here, how will the user know what this feature does and why was it created?

Author: not required.

# Leave Policy Assignment

> Introduced in Version 13

> Leave Policy Assignment in ERPNext is used to grant leaves to employees. To access Leave policy assignment, go to:

Reviewer 2: is this to grant leaves or to assign a leave policy to an employee?

> Home > Human Resources > Leaves > Leave Policy Assignment

## 1. Prerequisites

Before creating a Leave Policy Assignment, it is advisable to create the following:

* [Employee](/docs/user/manual/en/human-resources/employee)
* [Leave Policy](/docs/user/manual/en/human-resources/leave-policy)

## 2. How to create a Leave Policy Assignment

1. Go to Leave Policy Assignment, click on New.
1. Select Employee and Leave Policy.

> 1. Select Assignment based on if required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select Assignment based on the following as needed:
```

>     * If an assignment is based on Leave period, You need to select Leave period. The Effective From and Effective To will be set automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If "Assignment based on" is set to Leave Period, you need to select the applicable Leave Period. The Effective From and Effective To dates will be set automatically based on the Leave Period selected.
```

>     * If an assignment is based on Joining Date, The Effective From date will be set to Employee's Date of Joining.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If "Assignment based on" is set to Joining Date, the Effective From date will be set to the employee's Date of Joining.
```

>     * If an assignment is based on is blank, You need to set Effective From and Effective To Manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If "Assignment based on" is left blank, then you will have to set the Effective From and Effective To date manually.
```

1. Save and Submit.

<img class="screenshot" alt="Leave Policy Assignment"
	src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/human-resources/leave-policy-assignment.png">

> ## 3. Granting Leave

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 3. Granting Leaves
```

> Once the information is saved, the Leave Policy Assignment will also be used as a tool to help you grant leaves for employees. The **Grant Leave** button will appear at the right top corner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the information is saved, the Leave Policy Assignment will also be used as a tool to help you grant leaves to employees. The **Grant Leave** button will appear at the right top corner.
```

<img class="screenshot" alt="Grant Leaves"
	src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/human-resources/leave-policy-assignment-grant-leave.png">

> On click, The Leave allocation will be created automatically based on [Leave Policy](/docs/user/manual/en/human-resources/leave-policy) as shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On clicking the "Grant Leave" button, Leave Allocation will be automatically created based on the [Leave Policy](/docs/user/manual/en/human-resources/leave-policy) as shown below.
```

<img class="screenshot" alt="Leave Allocations"
	src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/human-resources/granted-leaves.png">

> >**Note:** The Grant Leave button will appear only then if, No leaves are granted or there is no allocation against current Leave Policy Assignment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**Note:** The Grant Leave button will appear only if there are no leaves granted or there is no allocation against a current Leave Policy Assignment.
```

> ## 4. Automatic Allocate Leaves Based On Leave Policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 4. Automatically Allocate Leaves Based On Leave Policy
```

> To enable Automatic allocation for your Leave Policy Assignment you need to Enable [Automatic Allocate Leaves Based On Leave Policy ](/docs/user/manual/en/human-resources/hr-settings#37-automatic-allocate-leaves-based-on-leave-policy) checkbox in HR Settings. Our Scheduler Run background Job and check the Effective From Date in Leave Policy Assignment and create Leave allocation automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable automatic allocation of leaves based on the Leave Policy Assignment, enable [Automatic Allocate Leaves Based On Leave Policy ](/docs/user/manual/en/human-resources/hr-settings#37-automatic-allocate-leaves-based-on-leave-policy) checkbox in HR Settings. The scheduler then runs a background job and checks the Effective From date in the Leave Policy Assignment to create leave allocations automatically.
```

Reviewer 2: @Anurag810 change the checkbox name to "Automatically Allocate Leaves Based On Leave Policy"

> >**Note:** The Leave will be automatically granted only if, No leave is granted against that Leave Policy Assignment till Effective From date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**Note:** Leaves will be automatically granted only if, there are no leaves granted against that Leave Policy Assignment till Effective From date.
```

Reviewer 2: till effective from date or to date? @Anurag810

## 5. Features
### 5.1 Bulk Leave Policy Assignment

> Our System also allow to create multiple Leave Policy Assignment for multiple employees.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also bulk assign the Leave Policy to multiple employees in a single click.
```

1. Go to Leave Policy Assignment list, click on Bulk Leave Policy Assignment.

> 1. Dialog Will appear, Select Employee. You can filter Employee based on Company and Department or You can also use standard filters on clicking Add Filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A dialog will appear. Select the Employee. You can filter employees based on Company and Department or you can also use standard filters by clicking the Add Filters button.
```

> 1. Select Leave Policy and Effective From and Effective To.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select Leave Policy and Effective From and Effective To dates.
```

1. Click on Assign.

> <img class="screenshot" alt="Leave Allocations"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<img class="screenshot" alt="Bulk Leave Policy Assignment" src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/human-resources/bulk-leave-policy-assignment.png">
```

> 	src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/human-resources/bulk-leave-policy-assignment.png">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	
```

### 5.2 Granting leaves to multiple employees

> Our System also allow to Grant Leaves based on multiple Leave Policy Assignment for multiple employees.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Leaves can be granted based on multiple Leave Policy Assignments to multiple employees.
```

1. Go to Leave Policy Assignment list, click on Grant Leaves.

> 1. Dialog Will appear, Select Leave Policy Assignments. You can filter Assignment based on Company and Employee or You can also use standard filters on clicking Add Filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A dialog will be shown. Select the Leave Policy Assignments. You can filter the assignments based on Company and Employee or you can also use standard filters by clicking on the Add Filters button.
```

> 1. Select Leave Policy Assignment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the Leave Policy Assignments.
```
